
The book 'Cure of Alzheimer's' is a book of failure and of feeble success. Science's basic premise is to find that reduced set of rules that determine everything, and the failure of this book is not finding a nice reduced set for Alzheimer's.  The success is that it finds a lot of factors and that we have measuring tools for each (blood test - most of the bio-markers, social - measurement of social interactions, mental- ..).  This should not be mistaken for 'holistic' approach, which masks all the different factors in the sense that connotes 'giving up on finding the individual rules, but proposes regimen without verification'.  However we do not have a word to describe a method that follows multiple paths, with each path following a rule. We will come up with word soon.  Actually that word is found by Dale Bresden(the author) and it is 'programmatic'. A better word is 'multi-processing-programitic'.  He talks of optimizing the entire set of metrics.  He also talks of local optima, where you get into a state that appears good,but you have to re-train to reach higher optima.  This is very similar to changing your strokes in tennis to improve, but you will lose in the short term.

So that is the failure of the book => the solution is too complex, unless you force yourself somehow of getting out of a local optima, accept mentally the justification of the 'multi-processing-programatic' approach.

This means doing all of these simultaneously: 
Active programs: Exercise, Social interactions, Mental exercises, good diet, fasting, being properly hydrated,saunas(!), avoiding toxic environments, ..
Active monitoring: Regular blood test and the 36 factors he indicates in the book. These will modify your active programs above.

Most, if not all of us are only capable of following one program consiously like exercise only or medication only and ignore all the others.  
However this 'multi-processsing-programatic' approach have been around from ancient times. How the ancients knew this can be debated. Yoga claims a lot of these practicess and indicates that these  have been derived from 'deep thought' - Sannyasa etc. The other is 'random evolution'- people who practiced these survived, and handed it over to the next generation. In addition we have 'cultural evolution' - development of writing (and now the internet..), which spread these practices much faster.

Somehow we have to follow the 'multi-processing-programmatic' method in dealing with pretty much all problems.  No shortcuts which will generally get you into a local optima from which it is very difficult to get out of.  Obviously if you focus fully on 'multi-processing-programmatic' approach, it is complex and you will not be doing anything else! So the target is to do what you want to do optimally and maximally.  The computer approach to this problem is a separation of applications into 'background' and fore-ground.  The fore-ground reacts to the task, and the background makes sure you have enough disk, memory, cpu and other services.   Using this paradigm this 'multi-processing-programmatic' is the backgroud, and what you want to do is the foreground.

Here is an approach to following this paradigm:
Background Tasks:
a. Do yoga via a twice a week class (2-3 hrs a week) Sports- tennis (2-3 hrs ) etc.
b. Mental => socialize/join groups regularly
c. Always eat  properly

Foreground Tasks:
Varies depending on  what you want to do.

Here is Dr. Dale Bredesen describing the 'multi-processing-programmatic' approach is excruciating detail:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sq7uVZ_0D3U




